Kung Pao Cauliflower

Adapted from https://www.halfbakedharvest.com/kung-pao-cauliflower/#bo-recipe

Is starred.

Servings: 4

INGREDIENTS

1 large head cauliflower, cut into florets
2 tablespoons cornstarch
2 tablespoons canned full fat coconut milk
1/3 cup + 2 tablespoons low sodium soy sauce or Braggs Liquid Aminos
3 tablespoons hoisin sauce
2 tablespoons real maple syrup or honey
2 tablespoons rice vinegar
1 tablespoon sesame or peanut oil
2 cloves garlic, minced or grated
1 inch fresh ginger, grated
4 green onions, chopped, plus more for serving
1/2 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes, more or less to taste
1 pinch black pepper
1/4 cup salted peanuts, chopped, plus more for serving
steamed white or brown rice, for serving

STEPS

1) Preheat the broiler to high. Line a baking sheet with parchment.

2) In a large bowl, toss the cauliflower with 1 tablespoon cornstarch to coat.

3) Add the coconut milk and 2 tablespoons soy say, tossing to evenly coat all the florets. Spread the cauliflower in an even layer on the prepared baking sheet.

4) Transfer to the oven and broil for 3-4 minutes, until the cauliflower is just beginning to char on the edges.

5) Reduce the oven temp to 425 and bake another 5 minutes, until just tender.

6) Meanwhile, make the sauce. Combine the remaining 1/3 cup soy sauce, hoisin sauce, honey, vinegar, crushed red pepper flakes, and a pinch of pepper.

7) Add 1/4 cup water and the remaining 1 tablespoons cornstarch, whisking until combined and smooth.

8) Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium heat. Add the garlic, ginger, and green onions, and cook 5 minutes or until fragrant.

9) Stir in the soy sauce mixture and bring to a boil over medium heat. Once boiling, reduce the heat to low.

10) Add the cauliflower and cook, stirring occasionally, until the sauce thickens slightly, about 5 minutes.

11) Remove from the heat, stir in the peanuts.

12) Serve the cauliflower and sauce over bowls of rice. Top with additional peanuts and green onions.

